Everyone's been telling you to post on
LinkedIn to grow your B2B business, but
here's the truth. LinkedIn reach is
dying. The numbers don't lie. LinkedIn
organic reach has tanked massively, and
LinkedIn's leaning more and more into
boosted posts, thought leadership ads,
and sponsored company posts. It's all
going into paytoplay. And after helping
dozens of B2B and SAS companies drive
millions in pipeline and revenue, the
sad truth is many companies are wasting
their time posting on LinkedIn and
driving zero inbounds. So what actually
works today to drive pipeline and
revenue for your B2B or SAS company? So
first off, let's talk about why LinkedIn
reach is dying. So, to tee up some
context, I've got around 36,000
followers on LinkedIn at the time of
recording this. I've been posting now
for many years. And probably up until
now, about a year back, I was averaging
several thousand impressions per organic
post. Now, I'm getting several hundred
on most posts with the odd exception.
So, why do I think this is? Well, I
think LinkedIn's leaning more and more
into prioritizing paytoplay. So boosting
company page posts and ads and boosting
personal posts. So thought leadership
ads. In short, they want to generate
more revenue from the platform. It's
fair enough. It makes sense. So they're
leaning more and more to paytoplay. So
now, if you really want your content to
get shown to your ideal client profiles,
you've got to either invest in thought
leadership ads or company ads or a mix
of both on the platform. So you can
start getting your posts in front of
your ICP idol client profiles and start
retargeting those visitors that visit
your website to keep top of mind and
build trust over time. As well as this,
LinkedIn are placing way more emphasis
than ever before on personal posts. So
posting from your personal profile gets
way more organic reach compared to
company posts. And this is why right now
at Breaking B2B, we've been forced to
invest in ads on LinkedIn to get in
front of our target audience. Whether
that's retargeting our website traffic,
so our SEO visitors to stay top of mind
or targeting cold visitors that fit our
ICP with educational content, funny
content, case studies, reviews, proof,
testimonials, and more. So we can keep
top of mind both with folks in the sales
pipeline and cold prospects that hit our
ICP. And that's also we can keep our
company breaking B2B top of mind with
those prospects. So to summarize,
LinkedIn organic reach is getting
tougher and tougher by the day. And if
you really want to distribute your
content to the right prospects is
becoming paytoplay. So what's the
answer? Well, I think it's building
owned media assets. So things like your
website, investing in SEO, building out
a podcast, a YouTube channel, and a
newsletter. These are all assets that
you own and fully control. These aren't
rented platforms, and these content
assets can work around the clock 24/7 to
build trust, educate, entertain, and
drive inbound opportunities. Plus, they
can work fullfunnel through serving
information right at the top of that
salesunnel to midfunnel providing useful
assets right to the bottom of funnel.
Those case studies, social proof, those
proof points to really build trust and
provide that tipping point to encourage
prospects to book a call or book a demo
with you. So, why do these type of
assets beat social media marketing and
things like posting organically on
LinkedIn? Well, I'm not saying stop
posting organically on LinkedIn because
for me up to now it's worked
exceptionally well. We still get a
little bit of reach there and we are
doing some paid sponsored posts, but
this is an awesome way to reduce your
reliance on social media and start
building these owned assets and
ecosystems that are going to work around
the clock to stay front of mind and
build trust with dream clients. And most
importantly, you're not at the mercy of
algorithm changes. So, just like we've
seen that dramatic drop in LinkedIn's
organic reach, if that kicks into play,
you've got these assets that are going
to work hard for you, even if algorithms
suddenly stop performing well for your
business. Not only that, but you can
create multiple touch points depending
on where your prospects are at in their
buying journey, i.e. whether they're
researching, whether they're evaluating,
whether they're comparing those vendors,
or whether they're just looking for
those final proof points, those final
case studies to make a decision. Many
times these owned assets, whether that's
SEO, whether that's your website,
whether that's folks tuning into you on
YouTube or podcast or consuming your
newsletter for weeks, months, or more,
often they can have a higher conversion
rate. And unlike social media posts that
can disappear after a few days, these
assets compound, creating an evergreen
effect over time. And let's be real, no
one wakes up and suddenly decides to
spend 20, 50, 100, or 150k plus on your
software or your service. It takes a lot
of thought, evaluation, education,
consideration, internal debates,
internal discussions, and more before
they're ready to buy, which can take
months or even years depending on your
sales cycle and the ticket size of your
service or software. And this is exactly
why this approach works when it comes to
creating this media ecosystem of assets
that you own and control. By the way, if
you're serious about building a B2B
media ecosystem, one of the first things
you should consider is SEO. And if you
want to start taking SEO seriously to
build mind share, drive pipeline, and
revenue, why not grab a call with me
over at breakingb.com or hit the first
link in the description below. I'll
share exactly how we've helped dozens of
B2B and SAS companies make SEO a top
revenue driver and share insights on how
you can do the same. That's breaking.com
or hit the link in the description
below. Right, back to the video. Now,
let's talk about what the real B2B
buying journey actually looks like. Now,
by now, many of you have probably got a
how did you hear about us question on
your inquiry forms, on your book a demo,
or your book a call calendarly or
similar booking link. But often times,
I'll go a layer deeper and when I jump
on the initial discovery call with
prospects, I I'll ask them something
like, "What was your full route to
discovering me today?" or "What were
some of the touch points?" or "How did
you stumble upon us at breaking B2B
today?" and they might put in the
inquiry form SEO or LinkedIn or podcast
and then they'll jump on the call and
say something like well Sam we searched
for SAS SEO agency found you there took
a look through your website then I
checked out the Breaking B2B podcast and
YouTube channel watched a few episodes
for a while then I checked out some of
your articles then I followed you on
LinkedIn for a few months eventually
flagged you up with our exec team in
Slack and said look we should check out
breaking B2B for ICO then a few tasks
got important completely forgot about
SEO for a few months then it became
super important because I kept seeing
competitors above us in Google search
for our core terms and likewise on LLMs
when I was searching for around
solutions, comparing vendors, etc. Then
our exact team agreed that we needed to
get it done. I flagged up your YouTube
videos with them and eventually we
decided to book a call with you and do
some business and get our SEO sorted.
So, as you can see, often times the B2B
journey is messy as anything. It's
certainly not linear and there's a lot
of touch points going on often times for
several weeks, months, or even years
before prospects decide to reach out,
book a call and do some business. And
this is exactly why SEO is awesome for
capturing the active demand where dream
clients are looking for your solution
now, comparing vendors, or maybe even
annoyed with their incumbent vendor and
looking for alternative solutions.
Podcasts are great to build an extra
layer of trust, whether that's audio
podcasts or YouTube episodes, to really
build that one-on-one connection with
your audience on a deeper level and
really ingrain that trust that you are a
thought leader in the space. Newsletters
are a great way to keep top of mind,
especially for longer sales cycles,
solutions, or products. And all these
touch points are pretty crucial,
especially if you're selling a high
ticket B2B software or service, so you
can keep top of mind with dream clients
on the channels they actually use day in
and day out. So, let's talk in practical
terms what building out this media
flywheel actually looks like. Well,
first off, we've got SEO. And the crux
of a revenued driving SEO program is to
know exactly what your dream clients
search for on Google organic search or
now LLMs when they're in that buying
mode when they're not messing around
hunting for information, but they're
actively seeking out solutions like
yours and ready for taking a sign up,
booking a demo, or booking a call with
your sales team. So that means focusing
on commercial intent searches,
notformationalbased searches, but money
keywords that they're going to be typing
into Google or LLMs when they're in that
buying mode. And often times there are
ways with SEO where you can actually
drive pipeline as quick as 90 days from
publishing content with the right
strategy. So for example, if you're a
proposal software SAS, you might have
long-term goals to rank for search terms
like best proposal software. Or in the
midterm, you might go specifically for
the industries you serve best, i.e.
proposal software for SAS or proposal
software for finance or proposal
software for HR. Knowing those main
money verticals that you've historically
sold well into, have the problem you
solve and motivated to fix it, and have
cash to easily invest in your offer. And
a great quick win, especially for tech
and SAS companies, is when you know the
common competitors, the top three, four,
five competitors that always get brought
up in sales calls almost to an annoying
level, is to target them directly. So,
we know that folks might get annoyed
with them, perhaps for poor customer
success. Maybe their pricing goes
skyhigh when you add more users, or
maybe there's another reason that folks
often move away from them. Or perhaps
your dream clients just often evaluate
three, four, five vendors internally
before making decision. And this is why
competitor alternative, competitor
pricing, competitor reviews, competitor
one versus competitor 2, these type of
searches and building content for these
type of searches ranks exceptionally
well because we know that often
prospects get annoyed with their current
vendor and look to move away or they
evaluate several options before making a
decision. So, if you can craft
wellressearched content that's backed by
customer research that attacks their
problems, their frustrations, positions
your product as the painkiller, has
plenty of proof signals, whether that's
customer quotes, customer case study,
video reviews, testimonials, and more,
addresses common queries, sales
objections, FAQs on page, and whether
that is competitor alternative pages,
whether that's best x solution listical
or articles, whether that's industry
focused niche relevant landing page,
pages or elsewhere. Essentially building
your website to be a 24/7 sales rep. So
you're putting multiple lines in the
water. So every time a dream client
searches directly for your solution, is
comparing alternatives, is looking for a
specific use case for their industry.
You've got a dedicated page that's way
better than anything else on the
internet. Attacks their direct problems,
their goals, their jobs to be done.
Positions your product or solution as a
painkiller. It's fully backed by
customer research, so it's going to
resonate with dream clients. plus covers
the basic technical of SEO whether
that's page speed metadata making sure
your money keywords are in page one and
so on as well as reinforcing those hard
to rank search terms or keywords with
solid niche relevant back links and
brand mentions. All of these evergreen
assets that you build out are going to
start to get you visibility both on
Google organic search and LLMs when
dream clients are hunting for your
solution or evaluating options so you
can start gaining mind share and driving
inbound opportunities from high sales
intent prospects. Now to start ramping
up that authority you can think about
building out your own podcast and
YouTube channel. There's a couple ways
that you can play this. So you can
interview dream client. So you can make
a list of your top 20, 50, 100 accounts
and invite those folks to be a guest on
your podcast. So in our case, most of
the time in B2B, these folks are
probably hanging out on LinkedIn. So why
not make a list, invite them to be a
guest on your show. In many cases,
they'll be humbled to be a guest. And in
that episode, you can ask them
insightful questions around their
industry, perhaps how they're driving
growth, what they're doing today, their
learnings, and more. You can then
produce that into a great episode on
both YouTube and the audio podcast
channels. But the beauty of this
strategy is it builds a layer of trust
with that prospect. So they might not
buy right now. They might not take a
demo or a call with you right now, but
it's a great way to then stay top of
mind. And perhaps at the end of the
interview, you might ask them a question
once you finish recording like how are
you tackling this problem that your
product solves today or how are you
dealing with this problem that your
product solves at your organization
today? just to open that open up that
conversation and perhaps it's worth a
chat at a later date or even if not
you've got them in your network maybe
you add them to your email list you add
them on LinkedIn so they'll start
enjoying your content and eventually
when they may need your solution you're
top of mind perhaps they might even have
referrals for your business has been
something we've done at breaking B2B and
has driven a bunch of inbounds over the
years strategy is building solo episodes
just like we do on the breaking B2B
podcast and YouTube channel all to show
thought leadership so in our case we
talk about SAS SEO, B2B SEO, share
experiments running at B2B across our
marketing channels, what's worked, what
hasn't, essentially sharing the full
playbook, making it as useful and
practical for anyone that tunes in as
possible. So many folks might try and do
it themselves, but many folks will
realize it's a lot to do internally, and
they'll reach out directly to you when
they need your help because they trust
you to get the job done. And a third
strategy here is to actually guest on
niche relevant podcasts. So you can go
onto a website like listen notes. You
can type in your industry. In our case
that might be B2B marketing or SAS
marketing. In your case it might be
finance accounting or something else.
Whatever is relevant. And then you can
see the top shows in your industry and
your niche. And my tip here is to reach
out to the hosts of each show. Stand out
from the noise by sending them a custom
Loom video like hey Jess. Or hey Tom
enjoyed your recent episode on XYZ. Had
some unusual ideas that I think would be
useful for your audience and happy to
then promote the show to my audience
across socials email list etc. would you
be against having me on your podcast?
This gets a really high acceptance rate.
The beauty of guesting on niche relevant
podcasts that your dream clients are
listening to is you can grow your own
following across socials. You can grow
your email list. Helps with SEO because
they'll likely post an article on the
podcast topic and even backlink to your
site. And once again, this is an asset
that's promoting you, your business.
You're getting some SEO and some PR
value and even the chance to get direct
inbound leads from that podcast guesting
strategy. And last off, we've got your
newsletter. And this is something we've
done at Breaking B2B with a newsletter
over the last few years. A great way to
build up your newsletter following is to
create a lead magnet or calculator or
something valuable that your dream
clients would probably pay for, but you
give it away for free. So quite often
when I'm posting on LinkedIn organic,
for example, I might say at the end of a
post, "PS, grab my 90 days to revenue
SEO guide. Head over to the breaking B2B
site and hit the newsletter tab and you
can unlock that instantly." And
something like that that's relevant to
your niche, relevant to your industry,
and genuinely useful for your dream
clients is a great way to build up that
list. Then you can consider sending out
a weekly or in my case, a weekly
newsletter with tips, insights,
playbooks, ideas, maybe fresh podcast
episodes or more. So you can keep top of
mind with your dream clients. Even when
they're not ready to buy, you're staying
consistently there as a valuable asset.
So when they eventually need your
services or know someone that might,
you're the one that they think about
reaching out to. Now SEO is a big piece
of the puzzle to build trust, mind
share, and capture inbounds from both
Google organic and now LLMs. And many
B2B and SAS teams that partner with us
for their SEO often see results and
pipeline as quick as 90 days. So, if you
want to chat with me about where you're
at and where you'd like to get to with
SEO to start driving pipeline and
revenue for your B2B or SAS business,
why not book a call with me over at
breakingb2b.com
or hit the first link in the description
below. Or if you're not ready, grab our
90 days to revenue playbook. Head over
to breakingb2b.com and hit the
newsletter tab. Or you can check out the
breaking b2b podcast for interviews with
SAS marketing leaders as well as
actionable tips to grow your SEO, your
B2B marketing pipeline and revenues. And
with that, I shall catch you on the next
one.